What's up, everybody?
All right, fair warning. This is a longer lecture,
but I promise you it is worth it.
I'm going to let you in on a little bit of a secret here.
This is one of the best ways for getting any job,
but it works especially well for a product management
role, and it works especially, especially well for
getting your first product management role in a
junior position, which is what you've got to do
if you don't have any experience prior.
We've already talked about how it's very important to demonstrate knowledge of product management in order to land the job.
This is why interviews make you demonstrate
this during the interview.
But what about outside of that interview, can you do
anything to demonstrate that you really, really know
what you're talking about?
Well, if you followed along so far, you're probably
already well under way to demonstrating knowledge
by establishing an online brand and doing a side project
if you've never had any experience at work before.
But there is one more thing you can do to maximize
your chances at getting the job.
However, I've got to tell you that this is not easy.
This is going to require some more time and effort from you.
If you aren't serious about getting your dream job
as a product manager, and you don't want to go the
extra mile to stand out from the tons of other people
that want that job, then you don't need to finish
this video and I am super disappointed in you.
So go ahead, if you're one of those people, turn off the video,
the rest of us will wait here.
Go ahead. No, no, yeah, go.
Okay, so now that the lazy people are gone,
I'm going to let the rest of you in on this secret.
But it's not that complex, it's actually pretty simple.
Do a demonstration project for the company that you're applying to
and send it to the hiring manager and the recruiter.
It's like doing a generic project that we already talked
about, but it's much more targeted and that's the key.
You're probably thinking like,
"Well, does this work? Why am I going to do this?"
It does work.
In fact, this is how I got my first few product management
jobs, and I've also gotten a ton of offers
by doing this that allowed me to basically choose the
company I wanted to work for instead of having
to accept the first offer that came my way.
So the basic technique here is to find out what sorts
of things the company is working on with their
product currently, and their strategy, and that sort of thing.
Show them how you would approach the problem
if you were to be hired. You can do this by either doing
some generic research on the company and finding
out through news articles and that sort of thing
what they're trying to build or the challenges they
face, or you can be even more effective
and ask them some questions
during your first interview with them, and with all
of the work you've done so far in this course, with
the online branding, and your social media profiles,
and just knowing what you're talking about, it should
be pretty easy to get at least a first round interview or a phone call.
So here's how I do it,
and, you know, how I did it back when I was first
starting out. Let's say that I got a first round interview
for a product management role. During the first interview,
I would answer the questions, but then I would also ask
them why they're hiring, which features this product
position would work on, and see if they'd give me any
information I could use on the things that they're
trying to build, or the markets they're trying to get into,
or the clients that they want, that type of thing.
So what I would do after that, I would immediately leave,
after the interview I would immediately go home and
I'd do research on the product, the industry, the technology,
and the competition around the stuff that they
told me when I asked them those questions. Then I would spend
at least 24 to 48 hours developing a comprehensive
overview of how I would approach that problem.
Usually, I would spend an entire weekend doing this.
"But, Cole," you say, "I want to go out with my friends
and drink beer on the weekends." Or not beer.
I don't know, vodka.
Maybe you should do that instead.
But the other people are going to be doing this extra
work on the weekends in order to put themselves
above the other candidates and show that they really want
that job and they know what they're talking about.
So, in the past, these projects I've done have ranged
from a small four-page PDF document all the way
to a 60-page slide deck, and I'm not kidding,
I actually put together 60 slides once for a company.
They freaking loved it.
These things usually contain things like descriptions
of the research I did, the approaches I would
consider, the technical limitations I found, wireframes
of potential solutions, A/B tests I would run, competitive
overviews, and sometimes I even have gone so far
as to find friends of mine that use their product, then
I call up those friends and say "Can I talk to you for 30 minutes?"
I interview them about their feedback and
their experiences with that product,
I record it or at least I transcribe it, and I include
those interviews and the conclusions I drew from
those interviews in that project.
So once I'm done with the project, I will usually e-mail
the completed document in, like, a slide deck or PDF
to the recruiter and the hiring manager, thanking them
for the interview, telling them that I put together
some suggestions to demonstrate my interest in working
with them, and what I know about the industry.
So the silver lining to all of this, even if it doesn't
help you get the job, is that if you do it, you
will get an even better chance of getting the next job.
This is because, first of all, you've done a lot of
product thinking while you've been putting this thing
together, and trust me, it builds up and it helps,
but mostly because you can just take that case study
and you can just put it on your web site or your blog,
and then the next recruiter that talks to you about
this position is going to check it out, and they're
going to say "Well, this person really knows their stuff.
Look at all of these case studies they've done
in their free time." It's going to be awesome.
On top of that, you can even talk about these suggestions and case studies for that company that you didn't get the job for,
you can talk about them in the next interviews with
other companies, it has so many benefits.
All right. So, use this information wisely.
This is really a great technique, not only for getting a job,
but thinking through that product management mindset,
like I said, you're going to have to go through that
process, and doing it is just going to improve your
product mind as you go through it every single time.
Look, if you apply to a company and you sit back waiting
for them to call you with a job offer or waiting
for them to call you for the next interview, you're
doing the exact same thing as everybody else.
Stand out from the crowd by putting in the effort,
showing them that you really want this position, and
demonstrate to them that you've got the skills to do it.
I hope a bunch of you are motivated now with that
lecture, but also the stuff before it. If you do all
of that, you're going to be in such a good place that
you're going to be so far beyond where I was,
I mean, when when I first started, I had nearly no experience,
I did not take this course.
Obviously, that would be weird. At that point, there
were no schools teaching product management,
I had no product management experience,
I kind of had to just figure it out.
But now you've got someone like me that's gone
through all of this telling you exactly how to do it.
You are leagues above every single other person
out there trying to get this position.
I hope you enjoyed the lecture.
I know it's a lot of work, but it's totally worth it.
I'll see you in the next one.